# 20260611

From *The Power of Now*, by Eckhart Tolle

## Ch1 You Are Not Your Mind

### The Greatest Obstacle to Enlightenment

> Enlightenment — what is that?
>

A beggar had been sitting by the side of a road for over thirty years. One day a stranger walked by. “Spare[^1] some change[^2]?” mumbled[^3] the beggar, mechanically holding out[^4] his old baseball cap. “I have nothing to give you,” said the stranger. Then he asked: “What's that you are sitting on? ” “Nothing,” replied the beggar. “Just an old box. I have been sitting on it for as long as I can remember. ” “Ever looked inside?” asked the stranger. “No,” said the beggar. “What's the point? There's nothing in there.” “Have a look inside,” insisted the stranger. The beggar managed to pry[^5] open the lid[^6]. With astonishment, disbelief[^7], and elation[^8], he saw that the box was filled with gold.

I am that stranger who has nothing to give you and who is telling you to look inside. Not inside any box, as in the parable[^9], but somewhere even closer, inside yourself.

“But I am not a beggar,” I can hear you say.

Those who have not found their true wealth, which is the radiant[^10] joy of Being and the deep, unshakable peace that comes with it, are beggars, even if they have great material wealth. They are looking outside for scraps[^11] of pleasure or fulfillment, for validation, security, or love, while they have a treasure within that not only includes all those things but is infinitely greater than anything the world can offer.

The word *enlightenment* conjures up[^12] the idea of some superhuman accomplishment, and the ego likes to keep it that way, but it is simply your natural state of felt oneness[^13] with Being. It is a state of connectedness with something immeasurable and indestructible, something that, almost paradoxically, is essentially you and yet is much greater than you. It is finding your true nature beyond name and form. The inability to feel this connectedness gives rise to the illusion of separation, from yourself and from the world around you. You then perceive yourself, consciously or unconsciously, as an isolated fragment. Fear arises, and conflict within and without[^14] becomes the norm.


I love the Buddha's simple definition of enlightenment as “the end of suffering.” There is nothing superhuman in that, is there? Of course, as a definition, it is incomplete. It only tells you what enlightenment is not: no suffering. But what's left when there is no more suffering? The Buddha is silent on that, and his silence implies that you'll have to find out for yourself. He uses a negative definition so that the mind cannot make it into something to believe in or into a superhuman accomplishment, a goal that is impossible for you to attain[^15]. Despite this precaution[^16], the majority of Buddhists still believe that enlightenment is for the Buddha, not for them, at least not in this lifetime.

> You used the word Being. Can you explain what you mean by that?
>

Being is the eternal, ever-present[^17] One Life beyond the myriad[^18] forms of life that are subject to birth and death. However, Being is not only beyond but also deep within every form as its innermost invisible and indestructible essence. This means that it is accessible to you now as your own deepest self, your true nature. But don't seek to grasp it with your mind. Don't try to understand it. You can know it only when the mind is still. When you are present, when your attention is fully and intensely in the Now, Being can be felt, but it can never be understood mentally. To regain awareness of Being and to abide in[^19] that state of “feeling-realization” is enlightenment.

> When you say Being, are you talking about God? If you are, then why don't you say it?
>

The word God has become empty of meaning through thousands of years of misuse. I use it sometimes, but I do so sparingly[^20]. By misuse, I mean that people who have never even glimpsed[^21] the realm of the sacred, the infinite vastness behind that word, use it with great conviction[^22], as if they knew what they are talking about. Or they argue against it, as if they knew what it is that they are denying. This misuse gives rise to absurd beliefs, assertions, and egoic delusions, such as “My or our God is the only true God, and your God is false,” or Nietzsche's famous statement “God is dead.”

The word God has become a closed concept. The moment the word is uttered, a mental image is created, no longer, perhaps, of an old man with a white beard, but still a mental representation of someone or something outside you, and, yes, almost inevitably a male someone or something.

Neither God nor Being nor any other word can define or explain the ineffable[^23] reality behind the word, so the only important question is whether the word is a help or a hindrance in enabling you to experience That toward which it points. Does it point beyond itself to that transcendental[^24] reality, or does it lend itself too easily to becoming no more than an idea in your head that you believe in, a mental idol?

The word Being explains nothing, but nor does God. Being, however, has the advantage that it is an open concept. It does not reduce the infinite invisible to a finite entity. It is impossible to form a mental image of it. Nobody can claim exclusive possession of Being. It is your very essence, and it is immediately accessible to you as the feeling of your own presence, the realization 'I am' that is prior to 'I am this' or 'I am that'. So it is only a small step from the word Being to the experience of Being.

> What is the greatest obstacle to experiencing this reality?
>

Identification with your mind, which causes thought to become compulsive. Not to be able to stop thinking is a dreadful affliction[^25], but we don't realize this because almost everybody is suffering from it, so it is considered normal. This incessant[^26] mental noise prevents you from finding that realm of inner stillness that is inseparable from Being. It also creates a false mind-made self that casts a shadow of fear and suffering. We will look at all that in more detail later.

The philosopher Descartes believed that he had found the most fundamental truth when he made his famous statement: “I think, therefore I am.” He had, in fact, given expression to the most basic error, to equate thinking with Being and identity with thinking. The compulsive thinker, which means almost everyone, lives in a state of apparent separateness, in an insanely complex world of continuous problems and conflict, a world that reflects the ever-increasing fragmentation of the mind. Enlightenment is a state of wholeness, of being “at one” and therefore at peace. At one with life in its manifested aspect, the world, as well as with your deepest self and life unmanifested — at one with Being. Enlightenment is not only the end of suffering and of continuous conflict within and without, but also the end of the dreadful enslavement[^27] to incessant thinking. What an incredible liberation this is!

Identification with your mind creates an opaque[^28] screen[^29] of concepts, labels, images, words, judgments, and definitions that blocks all true relationship. It comes between you and yourself, between you and your fellow man and woman, between you and nature, between you and God. It is this screen of thought that creates the illusion of separateness, the illusion that there is you and a totally separate “other.” You then forget the essential fact that, underneath the level of physical appearances and separate forms, you are one with all that is. By “forget,” I mean that you can no longer feel this oneness as self-evident reality. You may believe it to be true, but you no longer know it to be true. A belief may be comforting. Only through your own experience, however, does it become liberating.

Thinking has become a disease. Disease happens when things get out of balance. For example, there is nothing wrong with cells dividing and multiplying in the body, but when this process continues in disregard[^30] of the total organism, cells proliferate[^31] and we have disease.

The mind is a superb instrument if used rightly. Used wrongly, however, it becomes very destructive. To put it more accurately, it is not so much that you use your mind wrongly — you usually don't use it at all. It uses you. This is the disease. You believe that you are your mind. This is the delusion. The instrument has taken you over.

> I don't quite agree. It is true that I do a lot of aimless thinking, like most people, but I can still choose to use my mind to get and accomplish things, and I do that all the time.
>

Just because you can solve a crossword puzzle or build an atom bomb doesn't mean that you use your mind. Just as dogs love to chew bones, the mind loves to get its teeth into problems. That's why it does crossword puzzles and builds atom bombs. You have no interest in either. Let me ask you this: can you be free of your mind whenever you want to? Have you found the “off” button?

> You mean stop thinking altogether? No, I can't, except maybe for a moment or two.
>

Then the mind is using you. You are unconsciously identified with it, so you don't even know that you are its slave. It's almost as if you were possessed[^32] without knowing it, and so you take the possessing entity to be yourself. The beginning of freedom is the realization that you are not the possessing entity — the thinker. Knowing this enables you to observe the entity. The moment you start watching the thinker, a higher level of consciousness becomes activated. You then begin to realize that there is a vast realm of intelligence beyond thought, that thought is only a tiny aspect of that intelligence. You also realize that all the things that truly matter — beauty, love, creativity, joy, inner peace — arise from beyond the mind. You begin to awaken.

[^1]: spare: to make something such as time or money available to somebody or for something, especially when it requires an effort for you to do this抽出；拨出；留出；匀出<br/>**spare something/somebody** I'd love to have a break, but I can't spare the time just now.<br/>我是想休息一下，可眼下找不出时间。<br/>**spare something/somebody to do something** Could you spare one of your staff to help us out?<br/>你能不能从你手下抽一个人过来帮帮我们？<br/>**spare something/somebody for somebody/something** We can only spare one room for you.<br/>我们只能给你腾出一个房间。<br/>You should spare a thought for (= think about) the person who cleans up after you.<br/>你应该为随后打扫的人着想啊。<br/>He was late, but he spared a glance for the pretty girl at the desk.<br/>他迟到了，但他瞥了一眼桌子旁的漂亮女孩。<br/>**spare somebody something** Surely you can spare me a few minutes?<br/>你应该能为我空出几分钟时间吧？

[^2]: change: [uncountable] coins rather than paper money辅币；硬币；分币

[^3]: mumble: to speak or say something in a quiet voice in a way that is not clear嘟哝；口齿不清地说

[^4]: hold out: to put your hand or arms, or something in your hand, towards somebody, especially to give or offer something伸出手（或胳膊）；递出东西<br/>I held out my hand to steady her.<br/>我伸出手扶住她。<br/>He held out the keys and I took them.<br/>他伸手把钥匙递过来，我接了。

[^5]: pry: (especially North American English) (also prise especially in British English, North American English prize) to use force to separate something from something else强行使分开；撬开

[^6]: lid: a cover over a container that can be removed or opened by turning it or lifting it（容器的）盖，盖子

[^7]: disbelief: [uncountable] the feeling of not being able to believe something不信；怀疑

[^8]: elation: [uncountable] a feeling of great happiness and excitement兴高采烈；欢欣鼓舞；喜气洋洋

[^9]: parable/ˈpærəbl/: a short story that teaches a moral or spiritual lesson, especially one of those told by Jesus as recorded in the Bible（尤指《圣经》中的）寓言故事

[^10]: radiant: showing great happiness, love or health喜气洋洋的；容光焕发的；面色红润的<br/>a radiant smile<br/>喜气洋洋的微笑<br/>The bride looked radiant.<br/>新娘看上去满面春风。<br/>**radiant with something** She was radiant with health.<br/>她身体健康，容光焕发。

[^11]: scraps: [plural] food left after a meal残羹剩饭

[^12]: conjure/ˈkʌndʒə(r)/ up: to make something appear as a picture in your mind使…呈现于脑际；使想起

[^13]: oneness: [uncountable] (formal) the state of being completely united with somebody/something, or of being in complete agreement with somebody一体；一致；和谐

[^14]: without: (archaic or literary) outside<br/>the barbarians without the gates

[^15]: attain: <br/>(1) to succeed in getting something, usually after a lot of effort（通常经过努力）获得，得到<br/>(2)to reach a particular age, level or condition达到（某年龄、水平、状况）

[^16]: precaution: [usually plural]<br/>**precaution (against something)** something that is done in advance in order to prevent problems or to avoid danger预防措施；预防；防备

[^17]: ever: (rather formal) all the time or every time; always不断地；总是；始终

[^18]: myriad/ˈmɪriəd/, /ˈmɪriæd/: (literary) extremely large in number无数；大量

[^19]: abide in: (also bide) [intransitive] + adv./prep. (old use or formal) <br/>to stay or live in a place逗留；停留；居留；居住

[^20]: sparingly/ˈspeərɪŋli/: in a way that is careful to use or give only a little of something慎用；俭省的；吝惜的

[^21]: glimpse: <br/>(1) to see somebody/something for a moment, but not very clearly瞥见；看一眼<br/>(2) to start to understand something开始领悟；开始认识到

[^22]: conviction: <br/>(1) [countable, uncountable] a strong opinion or belief坚定的看法（或信念）<br/>(2) [uncountable] the quality of showing that you believe strongly in what you are saying深信；坚信；坚定；肯定

[^23]: ineffable/ɪnˈefəbl/: too great or beautiful to describe in words（美好得）难以形容的，不可言喻的

[^24]: transcendental: [usually before noun] going beyond the usual limits of human knowledge, experience or reason, especially in a religious or spiritual way（尤指宗教或精神方面）超验的，玄奥的

[^25]: affliction: [uncountable, countable] (formal) pain and difficulty or something that causes it折磨；痛苦

[^26]: incessant/ɪnˈsesnt/: (usually disapproving) never stopping不停的；持续不断的

[^27]: enslavement: [uncountable]<br/>(1) the act of making somebody a slave使成为奴隶；奴役<br/>(2) (formal) the act of making somebody/something completely depend on something so that they cannot manage without it使受控制；征服；制伏

[^28]: opaque: (of glass, liquid, etc.玻璃、液体等) not clear enough to see through or allow light through不透明的；不透光的；浑浊的

[^29]: screen: [countable] a tall, flat piece of furniture or equipment that is fixed to a wall, etc. or that can be moved to divide a room or to keep one area hidden or separate隔板；屏风；幕；帘

[^30]: disregard: noun [uncountable, singular] (formal) disregard (for/of somebody/something) the act of treating somebody/something as not important and not caring about them/it漠视；忽视

[^31]: proliferate: [intransitive] to increase rapidly in number or amount迅速繁殖（或增殖）；猛增

[^32]: possesse: <br/>(1) **possess somebody** (literary) (of a feeling, an emotion, etc.感觉、情绪等) to have a powerful effect on somebody and control the way that they think, behave, etc.攫住；支配；控制<br/>A terrible fear possessed her.<br/>一种可怕的恐惧笼罩着她。<br/>I was possessed by a desire to tell her everything.<br/>我被那渴望向她吐露一切的想法控制住了。<br/>(2)**possess somebody to do something** (used in negative sentences and questions用于否定句和疑问句) to make somebody do something that seems strange or unreasonable使言行失常<br/>What possessed him to say such a thing?<br/>他着了什么魔竟说出这种话来？