# 20260528

From *The War of Art*, by Steven Pressfiled

## WHAT I DO

I get up, take a shower, have breakfast. I read the paper, brush my teeth. If I have phone calls to make, I make them. I've got my coffee now. I put on my lucky work boots and stitch up[^1] the lucky laces that my niece Meredith gave me. I head back to my office, crank up[^2] the computer. My lucky hooded[^3] sweatshirt is draped[^4] over the chair, with the lucky charm[^5] I got from a gypsy in Saintes-Maries-de-la-Mer for only eight bucks in francs, and my lucky LARGO name tag that came from a dream I once had. I put it on. On my thesaurus[^6] is my lucky cannon[^7] that my friend Bob Versandi gave me from Morro Castle, Cuba. I point it toward my chair, so it can fire inspiration into me. I say my prayer, which is the Invocation[^8] of the Muse from Homer's *Odyssey*, translation by T. E. Lawrence, Lawrence of Arabia, which my dear mate Paul Rink gave me and which sits near my shelf with the cuff links[^9] that belonged to my father and my lucky acorn[^10] from the battlefield at Thermopylae[^11]. It's about ten-thirty now. I sit down and plunge in. When I start making typos, I know I'm getting tired. That's four hours or so. I've hit the point of diminishing returns[^12]. I wrap[^13] for the day. Copy whatever I've done to disk and stash[^14] the disk in the glove compartment[^15] of my truck in case there's a fire and I have to run for it. I power down. It's three, three-thirty. The office is closed. How many pages have I produced? I don't care. Are they any good? I don't even think about it. All that matters is I've put in my time and hit it with all I've got. All that counts is that, for this day, for this session[^16], I have overcome Resistance.

## WHAT I KNOW

There's a secret that real writers know that wannabe writers don't, and the secret is this: It's not the writing part that's hard. What's hard is sitting down to write.

What keeps us from sitting down is Resistance.

## THE UNLIVED LIFE

Most of us have two lives. The life we live, and the unlived life within us. Between the two stands Resistance.

Have you ever brought home a treadmill[^17] and let it gather dust in the attic[^18]? Ever quit a diet, a course of yoga, a meditation practice? Have you ever bailed out[^19] on a call to embark upon[^20] a spiritual practice, dedicate yourself to a humanitarian calling, commit your life to the service of others? Have you ever wanted to be a mother, a doctor, an advocate for the weak and helpless; to run for office, crusade[^21] for the planet, campaign for world peace, or to preserve the environment? Late at night have you experienced a vision of the person you might become, the work you could accomplish, the realized being you were meant to be? Are you a writer who doesn't write, a painter who doesn't paint, an entrepreneur who never starts a venture[^22]? Then you know what Resistance is.

> One night I was layin' down,
>
> I heard Papa talkin' to Mama.
>
> I heard Papa say, to let that boy boogie-woogie.
>
> 'Cause it's in him and it's got to come out.
>
> — John Lee Hooker, "Boogie Chillen"

Resistance is the most toxic force on the planet. It is the root of more unhappiness than poverty, disease, and erectile[^23] dysfunction[^24]. To yield to[^25] Resistance deforms[^26] our spirit. It stunts[^27] us and makes us less than we are and were born to be. If you believe in God (and I do) you must declare Resistance evil, for it prevents us from achieving the life God intended when He endowed[^28] each of us with our own unique genius. *Genius* is a Latin word; the Romans used it to denote an inner spirit, holy and inviolable[^29], which watches over us, guiding us to our calling. A writer writes with his genius; an artist paints with hers; everyone who creates operates from this sacramental[^30] center. It is our soul's seat, the vessel[^31] that holds our being-in-potential, our star's beacon and Polaris[^32].

Every sun casts a shadow, and genius's shadow is Resistance. As powerful as is our soul's call to realization, so potent[^33] are the forces of Resistance arrayed against[^34] it. Resistance is faster than a speeding[^35] bullet, more powerful than a locomotive[^36], harder to kick than crack cocaine[^37]. We're not alone if we've been mowed down[^38] by Resistance; millions of good men and women have bitten the dust[^39] before us. And here's the biggest bitch: We don't even know what hit us. I never did. From age twenty-four to thirty-two, Resistance kicked my ass from East Coast to West and back again thirteen times and I never even knew it existed. I looked everywhere for the enemy and failed to see it right in front of my face.

Have you heard this story: Woman learns she has cancer, six months to live. Within days she quits her job, resumes[^40] the dream of writing Tex-Mex[^41] songs she gave up to raise a family (or starts studying classical Greek, or moves to the inner[^42] city and devotes herself to tending babies with AIDS). Woman's friends think she's crazy; she herself has never been happier. There's a postscript[^43]. Woman's cancer goes into remission[^44].

Is that what it takes? Do we have to stare death in the face to make us stand up and confront Resistance? Does Resistance have to cripple[^45] and disfigure[^46] our lives before we wake up to its existence? How many of us have become drunks and drug addicts, developed tumors and neuroses, succumbed[^47] to painkillers, gossip, and compulsive[^48] cell-phone use, simply because we don't do that thing that our hearts, our inner genius, is calling us to? Resistance defeats us. If tomorrow morning by some stroke[^49] of magic every dazed[^50] and benighted[^51] soul woke up with the power to take the first step toward pursuing his or her dreams, every shrink[^52] in the directory[^53] would be out of business. Prisons would stand empty. The alcohol and tobacco industries would collapse, along with the junk food, cosmetic[^54] surgery, and infotainment[^55] businesses, not to mention pharmaceutical companies, hospitals, and the medical profession from top to bottom. Domestic abuse would become extinct, as would addiction, obesity, migraine[^56] headaches, road rage, and dandruff[^57].

Look in your own heart. Unless I'm crazy, right now a still, small voice is piping up[^58], telling you as it has ten thousand times before, the calling that is yours and yours alone. You know it. No one has to tell you. And unless I'm crazy, you're no closer to taking action on it than you were yesterday or will be tomorrow. You think Resistance isn't real? Resistance will bury you.

You know, Hitler wanted to be an artist. At eighteen he took his inheritance, seven hundred kronen[^59], and moved to Vienna to live and study. He applied to the Academy of Fine Arts and later to the School of Architecture. Ever see one of his paintings? Neither have I. Resistance beat him. Call it overstatement[^60] but I'll say it anyway: it was easier for Hitler to start World War II than it was for him to face a blank square of canvas.

[^1]: stitch up: to use a needle and thread to join things together 缝合

[^2]: crank up: to make a machine, etc. work or work at a higher level 使机器运转；使…提高效率 

[^3]: hooded: having or wearing a hood 有（或戴）兜帽的

[^4]: drape/dreɪp/: [transitive] drape something around/over/across, etc. something to hang clothes, materials, etc. loosely on somebody/something将（衣服、织物等）悬挂，披<br/>He draped his coat over the back of the chair. <br/>他把外衣搭在座椅背上。

[^5]: charm: [countable] a small object worn on a chain or bracelet that is believed to bring good luck（链子或手镯上的）吉祥小饰物<br/>a lucky charm<br/>吉祥饰物<br/>a charm bracelet<br/>吊饰手镯

[^6]: thesaurus/θɪˈsɔːrəs/ (plural: thesauri /θɪˈsɔːraɪ/, thesauruses /θɪˈsɔːrəsɪz/): a book that lists words in groups that have similar meanings类义词典；义类词典；同义词词典

[^7]: cannon: an old type of large, heavy gun, usually on wheels, that fires solid metal or stone balls（通常装有轮子并发射铁弹或石弹的旧式）大炮

[^8]: invocation: the act of asking for help, from a god or from a person in authority; the act of referring to something or of calling for something to appear（向神或权威人士的）求助；祈祷

[^9]: cufflinks: one of a pair of small objects used for fastening shirt cuffs together（衬衫的）袖口链扣，袖扣

[^10]: acorn: the small brown nut of the oak tree, that grows in a base that is like a cup 橡子；橡实

[^11]: Thermopylae/θəˈmɒpɪliː/: a pass between the mountains and the sea in Greece, about 200 km (120 miles) north-west of Athens, originally narrow but now much widened by the recession of the sea. In 480 BC it was the scene of a defensive action by an outnumbered Greek force of 6,000 men against the invading Persians under Xerxes I. Among the defenders were 300 Spartans, all of whom, including their king Leonidas, were killed.

[^12]: diminishing returns: used to refer to a point at which the level of profits or benefits gained is less than the amount of money or energy invested

[^13]: wrap: [no obj.] (informal) finish filming or recording<br/>we wrapped on schedule three days later

[^14]: stash: to store something in a safe or secret place存放；贮藏；隐藏<br/>She has a fortune stashed away in various bank accounts.<br/>她有一大笔钱存在几个不同的银行账户下。<br/>The gun was stashed under the bed.<br/>那枝枪被藏在床底下。

[^15]: compartment: one of the separate sections that something such as a piece of furniture or equipment has for keeping things in（家具或设备等的）分隔间，隔层<br/>glove compartment: a small space or shelf facing the front seats of a car, used for keeping small things in（汽车前排座位前放小物件的）杂物箱

[^16]: session: [often with modifier] a period devoted to a particular activity<br/>gym is followed by a training session

[^17]: treadmill: an exercise machine that has a moving surface that you can walk or run on while remaining in the same place（锻炼身体的）跑步机，健走机

[^18]: attic: a room or space just below the roof of a house, often used for storing things（紧靠屋顶的）阁楼，顶楼

[^19]: bail out: 1. to jump out of a plane that is going to crash（从即将坠毁的飞机上）跳伞<br/>2. to escape from a situation that you no longer want to be involved in逃避，摆脱（不想再牵连其中的情况）

[^20]: embark upon: (formal) to start to do something new or difficult从事，着手，开始（新的或艰难的事情）

[^21]: crusade: **crusade (for/against something) | crusade (to do something)** a long and determined effort to achieve something that you believe to be right or to stop something that you believe to be wrong（长期坚定不移的）斗争，运动

[^22]: venture: a business project or activity, especially one that involves taking risks（尤指有风险的）企业，商业，投机活动，经营项目

[^23]: erectile: able to become erect<br/>denoting tissues which are capable of becoming temporarily engorged with blood, particularly those of the penis or other sexual organsrelating to the capability of the penis or other sexual organs to become erect<br/>

[^24]: dysfunction: (medical医学) the fact of a part of the body not working normally（身体）功能障碍

[^25]: yield: [intransitive] (formal) to stop resisting something/somebody; to agree to do something that you do not want to do屈服；让步<br/>He reluctantly yielded to their demands.<br/>他不情愿地同意了他们的要求。

[^26]: deform: to change or damage the usual or natural shape of something; to become changed in shape改变…的外形；损毁…的形状；使成畸形

[^27]: stunt: to prevent somebody/something from growing or developing as much as they/it should阻碍生长；妨碍发展；遏制

[^28]: endow with: to give something to somebody/something给予；赋予

[^29]: inviolable: that must be respected and not attacked or destroyed不容亵渎的；不可侵犯的；不容破坏的<br/>never to be broken, infringed, or dishonoured

[^30]: sacramental: connected with an important ceremony such as marriage, [baptism](gdlookup://localhost/baptism) or communion圣事，圣礼（如婚配、圣洗或圣餐等）

[^31]: vessel: 1. a tube that carries blood through the body of a person or an animal, or liquid through the parts of a plant（人或动物的）血管，脉管；（植物的）导管<br/>2. (old use or specialist) a container used for holding liquids, such as a bowl, cup, etc.（盛液体的）容器，器皿

[^32]: Polaris: (Astronomy) the Pole Star, the star that is above the North Pole in the sky北极星

[^33]: potent: having a strong effect on your body or mind有强效的；有力的；烈性的；影响身心的

[^34]: array: (specialist) to arrange soldiers in a position from which they are ready to attack配置（兵力） <br/>(be) arrayed (against somebody) (figurative) <br/>the hostile forces arrayed against them<br/>敌对势力排列起来反对他们

[^35]: speeding: Of motor vehicles, motorists, etc.: travelling fast, esp. at an illegal speed. 超速

[^36]: locomotive: a railway engine that pulls a train火车头

[^37]: crack cocaine: [uncountable] a powerful, illegal drug that is a form of cocaine强效可卡因

[^38]: mow/məʊ/ down: to kill somebody using a vehicle or a gun, especially when several people are all killed at the same time（用交通工具或枪）杀死，撂倒，扫倒

[^39]: bite the dust: (informal)to fail, or to be defeated or destroyed失败；被打败；被摧毁

[^40]: resume: if you resume an activity, or if it resumes, it begins again or continues after being interrupted重新开始；（中断后）继续

[^41]: Tex-Mex: connected with the variety of Mexican cooking, music, etc. that is found in Texas and the south-west part of the US美国–墨西哥烹调的；美国–墨西哥音乐的；美国–墨西哥的

[^42]: inner: inside; towards or close to the centre of a place里面的；向内的；内部的；接近中心的<br/>inner London 伦敦市中心区

[^43]: postscript: **postscript (to something)** extra facts or information about a story, an event, etc. that are added after it has finished补充；补编；后话；跋

[^44]: remission: a period during which a serious illness improves for a time and the patient seems to get better（重病的）缓解期，减轻期

[^45]: cripple: [usually passive] to damage somebody’s body so that they are no longer able to walk or move normally使残废；使跛；使成瘸子

[^46]: disfigure: to damage the appearance of a person, thing or place损毁…的外形；使变丑；毁容

[^47]: succumb/səˈkʌm/: to not be able to fight an attack, a temptation, etc.屈服；屈从；抵挡不住（攻击、疾病、诱惑等）

[^48]: compulsive: (of behaviour行为) that is difficult to stop or control难以制止的；难控制的

[^49]: stroke: stroke (of something) a single successful action or event（成功的）举动；（高明的）举措；（巧妙的）办法；（成功的）事情<br/>Your idea was a stroke of genius.<br/>你的主意很高明。<br/>It was a stroke of luck that I found you here.<br/>我在这儿看见你纯属巧遇。

[^50]: dazed: unable to think clearly, especially because of a shock or because you have been hit on the head（由于震惊或头部受到撞击）神志不清的，茫然的

[^51]: benighted: (old-fashioned)<br/>1. (of people人) without understanding愚昧无知的<br/>2. (of places地方) without the benefits of modern life落后的；未开发的

[^52]: shrink: (informal, humorous)a psychiatrist or psychologist精神病学家；心理学家

[^53]: directory: a book or electronic resource containing lists of information, usually in alphabetical order, for example people’s phone numbers or the names and addresses of businesses in a particular area名录；电话号码簿；公司名录

[^54]: cosmetic: connected with medical treatment that is intended to improve a person’s appearance整容的

[^55]: infotainment: television programmes, etc. that present news and serious subjects in a way that entertains you 资讯娱乐节目

[^56]: migraine/ˈmaɪɡreɪn/: a very severe type of headache that often makes a person feel sick and have difficulty in seeing偏头痛

[^57]: dandruff: [uncountable]very small pieces of dead skin, seen as a white dust in a person’s hair头皮屑

[^58]: pipe up: **pipe up (with something)** (informal) to begin to speak开始说；说起来<br/>say something suddenly

[^59]: krone: A silver coin of the monetary system of the Austrian Empire, = 100 heller. <br/>克朗(1892-1924年奥匈帝国的货币单位)

[^60]: overstatement: a statement that you say in a way that makes it seem more important than it really is; the act of saying something in this way夸大；夸张；言过其实