# 20260604

From *A child's geography of the world*, by V. M. Hillyer (1875-1931)

---

This book is for the child who:<br/>thinks heaven is in the sky and<br/>hell is under the ground;<br/>has never heard of London or Paris and<br/>thinks a Dane[^1] is a kind of dog.

It is to give a traveler's view of the World—but not a commercial[^2] traveler's view.

It is to show the child what is beyond the horizon, from “Kalamazoo[^3] to Timbuktu[^4].”

It is to show him not only “the Seven Wonders of the World[^5]” but the seventy times Seven Wonders of the World.

When-I-was-a-boy in New England[^6] we had for Thanksgiving six kinds of pie: apple, peach[^7], cranberry[^8], custard[^9], mince[^10], and pumpkin, but I was allowed to have only two kinds and I never could make a satisfactory choice. I have had the same difficulty in selecting geographical places and subjects to tell about. There are too many “most important” places in the World to be included in this first survey[^11], and there will inevitably be those readers who will wonder why certain countries and certain places have been omitted, especially the place where the reader may live.

To me, as a child, geography was a bugbear[^12] of repellent[^13] names—Climate and Commerce[^14], Manufactures and Industries, and products, PRODUCTS, PRODUCTS. It seemed that the chief products of every place in the World were corn, wheat, barley[^15], rye[^16]; or rye, barley, wheat, corn; or barley, corn, rye, wheat. In my geography modern Greece had but[^17] a paragraph—because, I suppose, it did not produce wheat, corn, barley, rye. Geography was a “stomach” geography; the “head” and “heart” were left out.

I loved the geography pictures and maps but hated the text. Except for an occasional descriptive or narrative paragraph the text was wholly unreadable—a confused jumble[^18] of headings and sub-headings and sub-sub-headings: HOME WORK, NOTES, MAP STUDIES, Suggestions to Teachers, Helps, Directions, Questions, REVIEWS, PROBLEMS, Exercises, Recitations,  LESSONS,  PICTURE STUDIES, etc., etc., etc.

The World was an orange when I went to school, and there were only three things I can remember that I ever learned “for sure”—that the Dutch children wore wooden shoes, the Eskimos lived in snow houses, and the Chinese ate with chopsticks.

We had a question and answer catechism[^19] which we learned as we did the multiplication tables[^20]. The teacher read from her book:

Q. “What is the condition of the people of the United States?” and a thirteen-year-old boy in the next seat answered glibly[^21]: 

A. “They are poor and ignorant and live in miserable huts.” At which astounding statement the teacher unemotionally remarked, “No, that's the answer to the next question, ‘What is the condition of the Eskimos[^22]?'”

When my turn came to teach geography to beginners nine years of age, I found the available textbooks either too commercial and industrial, on the one hand, or too puerile[^23] and inconsequential[^24], on the other. Statistics and abstractions were entirely beyond the ken[^25] of the child of nine, and random stories of children in other countries had little value as geography.

As I had been a traveler for many years, had visited most of the countries of the Globe, and in actual mileage[^26] had been five times the distance around the World, I thought I would write a geography myself. Vain[^27] conceit[^28]! A class would listen with considerable attention to my extemporaneous[^29] travel talks, so I had a stenographer[^30] take down these talks verbatim[^31]. But when I read these notes of the same talk to another class, then it was that I discovered a book may be good—until it is written. So I've had to try, try again and again, for children's reactions can never be forecast. Neither can one tell without trial what children will or will not understand. Preconceived[^32] notions of what words they should or should not know are worthless[^33]: “Stupendous[^34] and appalling”presented no difficulties whatever but much simpler words were misunderstood.

I had been reading to a class from an excellent travel book for children. The author said, “We arrived, tired and hungry, and found quarters[^35] in the nearest hotel.” The children understood “found quarters” to mean that the travelers had picked up 25-cent pieces in the hotel! Then again I had been describing the “Bridge of Sighs[^36],” in Venice, and picturing the condemned prisoners who crossed it. Casually I asked if any one could tell me why it was called the“Bridge of Sighs”. One boy said, “Because it is of big size.” A little girl, scorning[^37] his ignorance, said,“Because it has sides.” A boy from the country, with a far-fetched imagination, suggested it might be because they used “scythes[^38]”; and a fourth child said, “Because it belonged to a man named ‘Cy.’”

The study of maps is interesting to almost all children. A map is like a puzzle picture—but new names are hard. And yet geography without either name or place is not geography at all. It is only fairyland[^39]. The study of maps and names is therefore absolutely essential and large wall maps most desirable.

Geography lends[^40] itself admirably to research on the part of the child. A large scrap-book[^41] arranged by countries may easily be filled with current pictorial[^42] news, clippings from magazines and Sunday newspapers, and from the circulars[^43] of travel bureaus. There is a wealth of such scrap-book material almost constantly being published—pictures of temples in India, pagodas[^44] in China, wild animal hunts[^45] in Africa, parks in Paris—from which the child can compile his own Geographic Magazine. Furthermore, the collection of stamps offers a most attractive field, particularly for the boy just reaching the age when such collections are as absorbing[^46] as an adult hobby.

Of course, the best way to learn geography is by travel but not like that of the business man who landed in Rome with one hour to see the city. Jumping into a taxi and referring to a slip[^47] of paper, he said: “There are only two things I want to see here—St. Peter's and the Colosseum[^48]. Drive to them as fast as you can and back to the station.” He was accordingly driven to St. Peter's. Sticking his head out of the window he said to the driver, “Well, which is this?”

In the little town where I was born, there lived an old, old man whose chief claim[^49] to distinction[^50] was the fact that he had never in his whole life been ten miles away from home. Nowadays travel is so easy that every child may look forward to traveling some day. This book is to give him some inkling[^51] of what there is to see, so that his travel may not be as meaningless as that of the simple sailor who goes round the world and returns with nothing but a parrot and a string of glass beads[^52].

## “ALL ABOARD !”

WHEN-I-WAS-A-BOY, my nurse used to take me to the railroad station to see the trains. A man in a blue cap and blue suit with brass buttons would call, “All aboard for Baltimore, Philadelphia, New York, and points north and east!” and wave his arm for the train to start. My nurse said he was a conductor.

So when I went home I used to put on a cap and play conductor shouting, “All aboard for Baltimore, Philadelphia, New York, and points north and east!” over and over, again and again, until I was told, “For pity sake[^53], stop it!”

But some day I hoped, when I grew up, to be a real conductor in a blue cap and a blue suit with brass buttons. And now that I am grown up, I am still playing conductor, for in this book I am going to take you to Baltimore, Philadelphia, New York, and points north, east, south and west—round the World!

[^1]: Dane: 1. A native or subject of Denmark; in older usage including all the Northmen who invaded England from the 9th to the 11th c.<br/>2. Applied to a breed or breeds of dogs. great Dane (also simply Dane): a large, powerful, shorthaired breed of dog, between the mastiff and greyhound types. lesser Dane: the Dalmatian, or coach-dog.

[^2]: commercial: connected with the buying and selling of goods and services贸易的；商业的

[^3]: Kalamazoo (/ˌkæləməˈzuː/) is a city in Kalamazoo County, Michigan, United States, and its county seat. 

[^4]: Timbuktu (also Timbuctoo): a town in northern Mali; pop. 35,600 (est. 2009). It was formerly a major trading centre for gold and salt on the trans-Saharan trade routes, reaching the height of its prosperity in the 16th century but falling into decline after its capture by the Moroccans in 1591 French name Tombouctou<br/>used in reference to a remote or extremely distant place

[^5]: Seven Wonders of the World: the seven most spectacular man-made structures of the ancient world<br/>Traditionally they comprise (1) the pyramids of Egypt, especially those at Giza; (2) the Hanging Gardens of Babylon; (3) the Mausoleum of Halicarnassus; (4) the temple of Artemis at Ephesus in Asia Minor; (5) the Colossus of Rhodes; (6) the huge ivory and gold statue of Zeus at Olympia in the Peloponnese, made by Phidias c. 430 BC; (7) the Pharos of Alexandria (or in some lists, the walls of Babylon)

[^6]: New England: an area in the north-eastern US that includes the states of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Connecticut新英格兰（包括缅因、新罕布什尔、佛蒙特、马萨诸塞、罗得岛、康涅狄格诸州的美国东北部地区）

[^7]: peach

[^8]: cranberry/ˈkrænbəri/: a small red berry with a bitter, sharp taste that grows on a small bush and is used in cooking越橘，小红莓（用于烹饪）

[^9]: custard: a sweet yellow sauce made from milk, sugar, eggs and flour, usually served hot with cooked fruit, puddings, etc.蛋奶沙司（通常与熟水果、布丁等一同食用）

[^10]: mince: meat, especially beef, that has been cut into very small pieces in a special machine绞碎的肉，肉末（尤指牛肉）

[^11]: survey: the act of examining and recording the measurements, features, etc. of an area of land in order to make a map or plan of it测量；勘测；测绘

[^12]: bugbear: a thing that annoys people and that they worry about使人烦恼担忧的事；牵挂

[^13]: repellent: repellent (to somebody) (formal) very unpleasant; causing strong dislike使人反感的；令人厌恶的

[^14]: commerce/ˈkɒmɜːs/

[^15]: barley: a plant grown for its grain that is used for making food, beer and whisky; the grains of this plant（皮）大麦；大麦粒

[^16]: rye: a plant that looks like barley but that produces larger grain, grown as food for animals and for making flour and whisky; the grain of this plant黑麦；黑麦粒

[^17]: but: <br/>1. *preposition*: except; apart from除了；除…之外<br/>We've had nothing but trouble with this car.<br/>我们这辆车净出毛病。<br/>I came last but one in the race (= I wasn't last but next to last).<br/>我赛跑得了倒数第二名。<br/>2. *adverb*: only只有；仅仅<br/>I don't think we'll manage it. Still, we can but try.<br/>我想我们应付不了这事。但不妨试试。<br/>There were a lot of famous people there: Lady Gaga and Hugh Jackman, to name but two.<br/>那里有很多名人，就提两个名字吧，有嘎嘎小姐和休 · 杰克曼。

[^18]: jumble: [singular] jumble (of something) an untidy or confused mixture of things杂乱的一堆；混乱的一团

[^19]: catechism: a set of questions and answers that are used for teaching people about the beliefs of the Christian religion（基督教的）教理问答<br/>a series of fixed questions, answers, or precepts used for instruction

[^20]: multiplication table: (also table, informal times table) a list showing the results when a number is multiplied by a set of other numbers, especially 1 to 12, in turn乘法表

[^21]: glibly/ˈɡlɪbli/: (disapproving) in a way that uses words that are clever, but are not sincere, and do not show much thought油腔滑调的；不诚恳的；未经思考的；肤浅的<br/>You can't just glibly dismiss centuries of tradition.你不能就这么轻易地无视几个世纪的传统。

[^22]: Eskimo/ˈeskɪməʊ/

[^23]: puerile/ˈpjʊəraɪl/;/ˈpjʊrəl/: (disapproving) silly; suitable for a child rather than an adult愚蠢的；幼稚的；孩子气的

[^24]: inconsequential: not important or worth considering 不重要的；微不足道的；细琐的

[^25]: ken: one's range of knowledge or understanding<br/>beyond your ken: (old-fashioned) if something is beyond your ken, you do not know enough about it to be able to understand it为某人所不理解；在某人的知识范围之外

[^26]: mileage/ˈmaɪlɪdʒ/: [uncountable, countable, usually singular] the distance that a vehicle has travelled, measured in miles英里里程

[^27]: vain: adjective.<br/>1. that does not produce the result you want徒劳的；枉然的；无结果的<br/>She closed her eyes tightly in a vain attempt to hold back the tears.<br/>她紧闭双眼，却无法忍住眼泪。<br/>I knocked loudly in the vain hope that someone might answer.<br/>我敲门敲得很响，希望有人应声，却是徒然。<br/>The government spent billions in a vain bid to prop up the currency.<br/>政府花费数十亿美元试图支撑货币，但徒劳无功。<br/>2. (disapproving) too proud of your own appearance, abilities or achievements自负的；自视过高的<br/>She's too vain to wear glasses.<br/>她太爱虚荣，不肯戴眼镜。

[^28]: conceit: noun. <br/>1. [uncountable] (disapproving) the fact of being too proud of yourself and what you do自负；骄傲自大<br/>2. [countable] (formal) an artistic effect or device, especially one that is very clever or tries to be very clever but does not succeed别出心裁但不实用的效果；巧妙但不实用的东西

[^29]: extemporaneous/ɪkˌstempəˈreɪniəs/: spoken or done without planning or preparation即席的：不经计划或准备就说或做的即兴

[^30]: stenographer/stəˈnɒɡrəfə(r)/: (also informal steno)(especially North American English)a person whose job is to write down what somebody else says, using a quick system of signs or abbreviations速记员

[^31]: verbatim/vɜːˈbeɪtɪm/: exactly as spoken or written一字不差的（地）；逐字的（地）

[^32]: preconceived: (of ideas, opinions, etc.思想、观点等) formed before you have enough information or experience of something事先形成的；预想的

[^33]: worthless: having no practical or financial value没用的；无价值的

[^34]: stupendous/stjuːˈpendəs/: extremely large or impressive, especially greater or better than you expect极大的；令人惊叹的；了不起的

[^35]: quarters: [plural] rooms that are provided for soldiers, servants, etc. to live in（供士兵、服务人员等居住的）营房，宿舍，住房

[^36]: Bridge of Sighs: a 16th-century enclosed bridge in Venice between the Doges' Palace and the state prison, originally crossed by prisoners on their way to torture or execution

[^37]: scorn: **scorn somebody/something** to feel or show that you think somebody/something is stupid and you do not respect them or it轻蔑；鄙视

[^38]: scythe/saɪð/: a tool with a long handle and a slightly curved blade (= sharp metal cutting edge), held in two hands and used for cutting long grass, etc.长柄大镰刀

[^39]: fairyland: [uncountable] (in stories小说) the home of fairies仙国；仙界<br/>[singular] a beautiful, special or unusual place仙境；奇境

[^40]: lend: [transitive] (formal) to give a particular quality to a person or a situation给…增加，增添（特色）

[^41]: scrap-book: a book with empty pages where you can stick pictures, newspaper articles, etc.剪贴簿

[^42]: pictorial/pɪkˈtɔːriəl/: using or containing pictures用图片的；有插图的

[^43]: circular: a letter, notice or advertisement that is sent to a large number of people at the same time（同时送达很多人的）印刷信函（或通知、广告）

[^44]: pagodas: a temple (= religious building) in South or East Asia in the form of a tall tower with several levels, each of which has its own roof that extends beyond the walls（南亚或东亚的）佛塔

[^45]: hunt: noun. [countable] (often in compounds常构成复合词) an act of going after wild animals to kill or capture them打猎

[^46]: absorbing: interesting and fun and holding your attention completely十分吸引人的；引人入胜的；精彩的

[^47]: slip: a small piece of paper, especially one for writing on or with something printed on it纸条；便条；小纸片

[^48]: Colosseum: the name since medieval times of the Amphitheatrum Flavium, a vast amphitheatre in Rome, begun c. 75 AD

[^49]: claim: [countable, uncountable] a right that somebody believes they have to something, especially property, land, etc.（尤指对财产、土地等要求拥有的）所有权<br/>**claim to something**<br/>She has more claim to the campaign's success than anybody (= she is responsible for it).<br/>她比任何人都更能宣称竞选成功。

[^50]: distinction: [uncountable] the quality of being excellent or important优秀；杰出；卓越

[^51]: inkling: a slight knowledge of something that is happening or about to happen（对正在或即将发生的事的）略知

[^52]: bead: [countable] a small piece of glass, wood, etc., with a hole through it, that can be put on a string with others of the same type and worn as jewellery, etc.（有孔的）珠子

[^53]: for pity's sake: (informal) used to express impatience or make an urgent appeal