# 20260609

Ch21 "On the Nature of Measurement", From *Educational Measurement* (5th edition)

Derek C. Briggs, University of Colorado Boulder

Andrew Maul, University of California, Santa Barbara

Joshua A. McGrane, Assessment & Evaluation Research Centre, The University of Melbourne

---

- [HISTORICAL AND CONCEPTUAL BACKGROUND](/english-academic/20260609-1)
- [MEASUREMENT AND THE TISM FRAMEWORK](/english-academic/20260609-2)
- [CHALLENGES AND DEBATES IN EDUCATIONAL MEASUREMENT](/english-academic/20260609-3)
- [LOOKING FORWARD](/english-academic/20260609-4)
- [REFERENCES](/english-academic/20260609-5)

---

Measurement, in its many forms, has been an integral part of human civilization since its very inception and is now inextricably woven into nearly every aspect of our lives. Every time we eat food, drive a car, take medicine, check a weather report, make a financial transaction, or engage with society in nearly any other way, we place our trust in the results of measurements. And for the most part, that trust seems to be well earned; over centuries of development, particularly in the contexts of the physical sciences and engineering, the concept of measurement has come to be commonly associated with precision, accuracy, objectivity, and overall trustworthiness.

Against this backdrop, it seems little wonder that the language and logic of measurement has been applied in nonphysical contexts as well. Discourse on measurement has featured prominently in the social and human sciences since their formal inception in the late 19th century, and arguably in economics for even longer than that. Moreover, the language and logic of measurement have often been employed, with varying extents of formality, in relation to testing, especially in vocational and educational contexts. This is visible in many ways but is perhaps most obvious when the results of tests are reported in quantitative terms and when the differences between test scores (between or within students) are interpreted in terms of magnitudes, implying meaningfulness of the units of the scales on which the results are reported. We suspect most readers are familiar with many examples of educational test results being interpreted as measures of students' knowledge, skills, and abilities (and perhaps, by extension, as measures of aspects of teacher and school quality, or the efficacy of educational programs and interventions), as well as results from surveys and other modes of assessment being interpreted as measures of a range of psychological and social properties (e.g., conscientiousness, self-control, empathy).

However, as we will discuss in this chapter, testing is not necessarily the same as measurement, and the mere existence of a systematic number-generating procedure is insufficient to ground subsequent claims about numeric values to the kinds of epistemic virtues—that is, precision, accuracy, objectivity, and resulting trustworthiness—commonly associated with measurement. This distinction is often not clearly articulated, including, arguably, in previous editions of this volume. As was pointed out by Borsboom (2009, p. 706) in a review of the fourth edition of Educational Measurement,

> the authors . . . appear to consistently conflate the terms testing and measurement . . . as if any test score is automatically a measure. . . . Test scores can sometimes be interpreted as measurements . . . but not always and not necessarily so. The question of whether educational test scores can be so interpreted, and under which conditions, receives no attention at all in Educational Measurement—which must be considered remarkable.

Stated as simply as possible, a key purpose of the present chapter is to engage with the question of how educational measurement can (and perhaps should) be understood with respect to how measurement is understood more broadly, given the weight this concept carries in terms of interpretations of objectivity and trustworthiness. In doing so, we do not intend to argue for a single set of necessary and sufficient conditions for an activity to be considered an instance of measurement. We will, however, argue that there are common components of trustworthy measurement processes across domains of application and that recognizing these commonalities can help frame and clarify the central issue of how measurement results are interpreted and how their claimed trustworthiness is justified.

Broadly, and in accordance with the metrological literature (e.g., Mari et al., 2017, 2023), we define measurement as a process that provides information about a property of an object or event in the world, uses instrumentation designed to be sensitive to differences in this property, produces information in the form of values related to a scale or unit for that same property, and is qualified by information about uncertainty. In our view, the elements of this process apply regardless of whether the measured property[^1] is exhaustively definable in physical terms (e.g., temperature) or not (e.g., reading comprehension ability); our contention is that whether one is speaking of measurement in an educational context, in psychology, or in the physical sciences, the activity will involve a common set of elements that serve to justify its claimed trustworthiness. By drawing attention to these common elements, the challenges and affordances of measurement in a specific domain of application become more apparent.

It is worth noting that there is substantial variation in definitions of measurement throughout the historical and contemporary literature, and here we note just a few. Perhaps most famously, Stevens (1946, p. 667) defined measurement as "the assignment of numerals to objects or events according to rules." Michell (e.g., 1999, p. 222) defined measurement as the "discovery or estimation of the ratio of a magnitude of a quantity to a unit of the same quantity." Writing in the context of educational testing, Lord and Novick (1968, p. 17) defined measurement as "a procedure for the assignment of numbers (scores, measurements) to specified properties of experimental units in such a way as to characterize and preserve specified relationships in the behavioral domain." According to Mislevy (2018, p. 313), "Educational measurement, conceived broadly, is situating observations from an assessment into a mathematical framework to support reasoning about peoples' capabilities." Finally, a 2022 task force commissioned for the National Council on Measurement in Education (NCME) produced a report with two distinct definitions for measurement and educational measurement. According to the task force,

> Measurement is a systematic process of data collection using instrumentation that results in a quantity intended to support inferences about an attribute or property of an object, event, or phenomenon. Educational measurement involves measurement of knowledge, skills, dispositions, and abilities for some educational purpose, such as supporting learning, certifying learning, or identifying policies and practices that improve learning. (Ackerman et al., 2024, p. 8)

Inspection of and debate over what has been included and excluded in any given definition of measurement can lead to lively exchanges, whether in a classroom setting or in a pub. It may not always be apparent that different definitions can imply very different philosophical commitments about measurement as a process (c.f., Michell, 1999; Stevens, 1946), and this is something we explore in the "Historical and Conceptual Background" section of this chapter. At the same time, any one-sentence definition of measurement can only be a starting point for a more complete understanding. In our view, whenever we call something "measurement," we are at least implicitly laying claim to the perceived objectivity and trustworthiness commonly associated with this term. The shorthand definition that we favor is intended to draw attention to the components of a measurement process that serve to underwrite this claim. To go deeper, in this chapter we propose a framework for understanding measurement with respect to four central components: theory (T), instrumentation (I), scales and units (S), and modeling (M). We refer to this as the TISM framework, and we argue that, regardless of the subject matter or domain of application, the practice of measurement requires attention to each of these four components and their interactions.

The balance of this chapter is organized as follows. In the section "Historical and Conceptual Background," we present an overview of some of the key historical developments that have taken human societies from a time when the terminology of measurement was primarily reserved for applications in the physical sciences to the early 21st century and the context of this edited volume, which is concerned with the methods and practices of educational measurement. We explain how this more broadened conceptualization of measurement came about. We also summarize some of the hallmarks of educational measurement: its practical focus on decision-making, its association with standardized testing, and its emphasis on treating the results of a test as a random variable amenable to statistical modeling.

In the section "Measurement and the TISM Framework," we present and illustrate the central contribution of this chapter, the TISM framework for measurement. We describe each component of the framework and then illustrate the components in two concrete measurement contexts. We do this first for the canonical example of measuring temperature. We then shift to a more detailed illustration in an educational context for the measurement of reading comprehension. We show that the four TISM components of measurement are present and relevant in both contexts, but tend to pose unique challenges in education. We argue that this is because our theoretical understandings of constructs of measurement are often nascent or in flux and, relatedly, because the scales and units we use to interpret measurement results often have a tenuous connection to this theoretical understanding.

In the section "Challenges and Debates in Educational Measurement," we discuss how the TISM framework relates to validity and validation. We first briefly review the literatures on these topics and discuss how a focus on measurement (and the TISM components in particular) can be viewed as compatible with and complementary to an argument-based approach to validation: Stated briefly, whenever an argument for the adequacy of a test for a given purpose involves a claim about measurement, the TISM framework helps clarify what kinds of issues would be necessary to attend to in order to evaluate and defend this argument. We then illustrate this by turning to two examples of educational measurement activities that are challenging because, in our view, they depend on the extent to which one has an adequate substantive theory of the construct (the T in our TISM framework), whether this theoretical conceptualization coheres with the construction of test instruments (I), the scale and unit on which test results are expressed (S), and the choice of a statistical model used to relate observed test scores to the construct of interest (M). Specifically, we consider the activities involved in (a) characterizing the reliability, measurement error, and uncertainty of a measuring instrument and (b) supporting inferences about magnitude relative to the units of a measuring scale. We conclude the chapter with a summary of our main points, an acknowledgment of an important limitation of the TISM framework, and some speculation about the future of educational measurement.

[^1]: In this chapter, we occasionally use the term construct instead of property when referring to educational and psychosocial measurement, simply for consistency with the vocabulary in these fields. In the present context we treat these terms as synonyms, though with the awareness that they may not always be used synonymously in general (see, e.g., Slaney & Racine, 2013).