# 20260602

From *Glossika Guide to FRENCH Pronunciation and Grammar*

This introduction is based on the Parisian Region (Île-de-France) accent

## French sound system

**Consonants:** p b t̪ t̪ʰʲ d̪ kʲ g k g ; f v s z ʃ ʒ χ ʁ ʁ̞  ; tʃ dʒ ; l m n̪ ɲ ŋ

**Vowels:** i y e ø ɛ a; u o õ ɔ ɒ̃ ɐ̃

**Approximants:** j w ɥ

## Recent Changes in Pronunciation

In recent times, a few sound changes have occurred within the French sound system that you won’t find in textbooks and dictionaries:

The [ɑ] that used to be found in the word p**â**te [pɑt] (‘paste’) as merged with [a], so *pâte* is now pronounced [pat].

[ɛː] in *m**aî**tre* (‘master’) or *c**ai**sse* (‘crate’) has shortened to: [ɛ]. So these two words are now pronounced: [mɛtχ] and [kʲɛs].

[œ] in *c**œ**ur* (‘heart’) merged with schwa [ə]. So *cœur* is now pronounced [kʲəʁ].

[ɑ̃] is realized as [ɒ̃]

[ɛ̃] is realized as [ɐ̃]

[ɔ̃] is realized as [õ]

[œ̃] merged with [ɐ̃]

[ɲ] is no different from [nj]

[ʁ] is realized as [χ] before or after p, t̪, k, f, ʃ, s

[g] becomes palatalised to [gʲ] (sometimes [ɟ]) before a, e, ɛ, ə, i, ø, y, ɐ̃

[k] becomes palatalised to [kʲ] (sometimes [c]) before a, e, ɛ, ə, i, ø, y, ɐ̃

## Differences between reading French out loud and pronouncing French naturally

From a very young age, French people are taught to read and pronounce French in a “proper” way. Which means pronouncing each word and *la liaison* clearly. But this only applies to reading a text out loud. In a real, natural conversation, it would sound formal and unusual to pronounce every word perfectly. Unfortunately for learners of French, when asked to read a sentence from a text out loud, a native French speaker will remember his academic training and pronounce it the “proper” way, not the natural way.

That is why most textbooks and courses with recordings include the “proper” pronunciation, which is different from the “natural” pronunciation, resulting in the frustration of learners of French in the sense that when listening to real conversations between French people, they are unable to recognize and understand the words and sentences they learned in an academic setting.

To illustrate what I am saying here, if each word and liaison were perfectly pronounced, the sentence: *“Je ne suis pas encore arrivé.”* (‘I have not arrived yet’) would sound like: “ʒø nø sɥi paz‿ɒ̃kɔʁ aʁive.” But in a real life conversation, it would be overly formal to say “ne” and pronounce the liaison. The sentence should sound more like: [ʒø sɥi pa ɒ̃kɔʁ aʁive] or even: [ʃɥi pa ɒ̃kɔʁ aʁive]. In this case, “ne” disappeared as well as the liaison. Sometimes the [ʒ] of *je* becomes [ʃ] and ø also disappears, merging *je suis* into a single word: [ʃɥi].

If you are aware of these sound changes in French you will save yourself a lot of time and exasperation.
